Basic Commands:
1. Initialization and Cloning:
    git init: Initialize a new Git repository in the current directory.
    git clone <repository URL>: Clone a remote repository to your local machine.
2. Staging and Committing:
    git add <file>: Add file changes to the staging area.
    git commit -m "Commit message": Commit staged changes to the local repository.
    git commit -am "Commit message": Add and commit all changes in one command.
3. Branching and Merging:
    git branch: List all branches in the repository.
    git branch <branch_name>: Create a new branch.
    git checkout <branch_name>: Switch to a different branch.
    git merge <branch_name>: Merge changes from one branch into the current branch.
    git branch: List all branches in the local repository.
    git checkout -b <branch>: Create a new branch and switch to it.
    git checkout <branch>: Switch to a different branch.
    git merge <branch>: Merge changes from one branch into another
4. Remote Repositories:
    git remote -v: List configured remote repositories.
    git remote add origin <repository URL>: Add a remote repository as the origin.
    git push -u origin <branch_name>: Push changes to a remote repository and set the upstream branch.
    git pull origin <branch_name>: Pull changes from a remote repository to your local branch.
5. Viewing Changes:
    git status: Check the status of files in the working directory.
    git diff: Show changes between commits, the staging area, and the working directory.
6. Collaboration:
    git fetch: Fetch changes from a remote repository without merging them.
    git branch -d <branch>: Delete a branch locally.
    git push origin --delete <branch>: Delete a remote branch on GitHub.

Advanced Commands:
1. Undoing Changes:
    git reset HEAD <file>: Unstage changes for a file.
    git checkout -- <file>: Discard changes in the working directory for a file.
    git revert <commit>: Create a new commit that undoes changes made in a specific commit.
2. Interactive Rebase:
    git rebase -i <base>: Start an interactive rebase to edit, squash, or reorder commits interactively.
3. Stashing Changes:
    git stash: Stash changes in the working directory to a stack.
    git stash apply: Apply the most recent stash to the working directory.
    git stash pop: Apply and remove the most recent stash from the stack.
4. Viewing History and Logs:
    git log: Show commit logs.
    git log --oneline: Show condensed commit logs in one line.
    git blame <file>: Show changes made to a file along with commit details and authors.
5. Cleaning and Maintenance:
    git clean -n: Preview files that will be removed by git clean -f.
    git clean -f: Remove untracked files from the working directory.
    
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

What does the term "GitHub Pages" refer to?
    A feature for merging changes from one branch to another.
    A tool for creating and managing pull requests.
    A feature for hosting and publishing static websites directly from a GitHub repository. ✅
    A repository's settings page.

What is the purpose of the .gitignore file in a GitHub repository?
    To list files and directories that should be ignored by version control. ✅
    To define branch permissions.
    To store the repository's metadata.
    To specify the repository's license.

How do you revert a commit in a GitHub repository using Git?
    git r
    git commit
    git revert HEAD ✅
    git undo commit

What is the command to see the commit history in Git?
    commits
    gil show
    git history
    git log ✅

How do you stage all changes in your local repository for the next commit using Git?
    git stage
    git stage all origin
    git commit -m "Staging
    git add. ✅

How do you check the changes in your Git repository?
    changes
    git show
    git status ✅
    git check statin

What is the purpose of a GitHub repository's README.md file?
    To store code snippets.
    To store binary files.
    To provide information about the repos including usage instructions. ✅
    To list issues and bugs.

What Git command is used to create a new branch in a GitHub repository?
    branch
    git branch branch
    git checkout -b ✅ 
    -branch
    git branch-branch

What Git command is used to create a new branch in a GitHub repository?
    git branch branch ✅
    git branch -branch
    git checkout -b -branch
    git branch-branch

In GitHub, how do you contribute to a repository by suggesting changes without directly modifying the main branch?
    Create a new branch and make changes.
    Use the "Issues" tab to suggest changes.
    Fork the repository, make changes in the fork, create a pull request. ✅ 
    Edit files directly in the main branch.

In a GitHub repository, what does the "fork" operation do?
    Creates a copy of the repository under your GitHub account. ✅ 
    Deletes the repository.
    Merges changes from or
    Submits changes for